Artists use color to create patterns. Color can also show different moods. Bright colors make us feel happy and energetic. Dark colors make us feel calm or sad. The primary colors are red, yellow, and blue. They are the colors that can be mixed together to make different colors.  Mixing two primary colors makes a secondary color. The secondary colors are orange, green, and violet (purple). Orange is made by mixing yellow and red. Green is made by mixing yellow and blue. Violet is made by mixing red and blue. Intermediate colors can be made by mixing a primary and a secondary color together. Some intermediate colors are blue violet and red orange. Black, white, and gray are special colors. They are called neutral colors. Colors have been organized into a color wheel. It shows the three primary colors, the three secondary colors, and the six intermediate colors. Artists use the the color wheel. It helps them know which colors they want to use together.
It seems to be a common opinion that reading (understanding  the meaning of printed words) is a rather simple compounding of  habits. Each word or phrase is supposed, if known to the reader,  to call up its sound and meaning and the series of word or phrase  meanings is supposed to be, or be easily transmuted into, the total  thought. It is perhaps more exact to say that little attention has  been paid to the dynamics whereby a series of words whose meanings  are known singly produces knowledge of the meaning of a sentence or  paragraph.     It will be the aim of this article to show that reading is a   very elaborate procedure, involving a weighing of each of many elements  in a sentence, their organization in the proper relations one to      another, the selection of certain of their connotations and the   rejection of others, and the cooperation of many forces to determine  final response. 
In educational theory, then, we should not consider the   reading of a text-book or reference as a mechanical, passive,   undiscriminating task, on a totally different level from the task of    evaluating or using what is read. While the work of judging and   applying doubtless demands a more elaborate and inventive organization    and control of mental connections, the demands of mere reading are also   for the active selection which is typical of thought. It is not a small   or unworthy task to learn "what the book says." 
Readers draw on the ideas and information they have acquired from text to meet a particular purpose or situational need. The use of text may be as straightforward as knowing the time when a train will leave a particular station or may involve more complex behaviors such as analyzing how an author developed a character’s motivation or evaluating the quality of evidence presented in an argument 

Factors related to the text being read and to readers’ backgrounds and experiences influence reading performance. For example, understanding the vocabulary, concepts, and structural elements of the text contributes to readers’ successful comprehension. Comprehension is also affected by readers’ background knowledge and by the context of the reading experience. The background knowledge that students bring to the NAEP Reading Assessment differs widely. To accommodate these differences, passages will span diverse areas and topics and will be as engaging as possible to the full range of students in the grades assessed 


